content/blues_lesson_1.rst, before:

The Blues That I Used, part 1
=============================

:date: 2013-08-08
:tags: Guitar, Blues You Can Use
:category: Music
:slug: blues-you-can-use-lesson-1
:author: Vincent Nys
:summary: My own experiences with lesson 1 of Jonn Ganapes' book.
:status: draft

Practice
--------

After working my way through lesson 1, I wrote the following 8-bar tune
to cement the open sevenths and the minor pentatonic scale in the
open position:

.. todo:: volledige transcriptie, met vingerzettingen

The Lilypond source for this composition can be found

.. todo:: here

so, if you'd like to change the notation, alter the piece
output a midi file you can play back, just check out
`Lilypond <www.lilypond.org>`_. It's easy to learn and it's
got a lot of functionality built in.

I once read that you can always play the notes in the current scale
safely, as well as those in the scale of the current chord. I tried
playing some notes in the A minor pentatonic while on the IV, but it
didn't sound very good. Go ahead and try it out. Playing notes in the
A dominant 7th chord (or A7) worked, though, so you don't just use the same
type of scale as for the root chord (though you can obviously play notes
from the E7 chord as well).

Theory
------

Commit message:

Set up blog so I can add attachments. Also completed notation of Greenhorn Goodnight. Working on theory-related musings.

content/blues_lesson_1.rst, after:

The Blues That I Used, part 1
=============================

:date: 2013-08-08
:tags: Guitar, Blues You Can Use
:category: Music
:slug: blues-you-can-use-lesson-1
:author: Vincent Nys
:summary: My own experiences with lesson 1 of Jonn Ganapes' book.
:status: draft

Practice
--------

After working my way through lesson 1, I wrote the following 8-bar tune
to cement the open sevenths and the minor pentatonic scale in the
open position:

.. image:: |filename|/images/greenhorn_goodnight.png

The Lilypond source for this composition can be found
`here <|filename|/attachments/greenhorn_goodnight.ly>`_,
so, if you'd like to change the notation, alter the piece
output a midi file you can play back, just check out
`Lilypond <www.lilypond.org>`_. It's easy to learn and it's
got a lot of functionality built in. That said, I'm not
particularly familiar with it yet, so the results aren't
perfect. Throw in some pre-bends etc. wherever they feel
comfortable and you should get what I've got, roughly.

Theory
------

Choosing notes
++++++++++++++

I once read that you can always play the notes in the current scale
safely, as well as those in the scale of the current chord. I tried
playing some notes in the A minor pentatonic while on the IV, but it
didn't sound very good. Go ahead and try it out. Playing notes in the
A dominant 7th chord (or A7) worked, though, so you don't just use the same
type of scale as for the root chord (though you can obviously play notes
from the E7 chord as well).

Singing along
+++++++++++++

Getting to know the fretboard
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

I must've learnt the fretboard pretty well at least five times now and
now I find that I can't find my way around it anymore. Playing around
with Fretboard Warrior just doesn't cut it, you need to think about
notes as you use them, too. Using classical notation is one way to
memorize the fretboard better.
