Djallenge, part 5
=================

:date: 2014-03-15
:tags: web, Django, Python
:category: Programming
:slug: djallenge-5
:author: Vincent Nys
:summary: Fifth tutorial in a ten-day series.

The plan
--------

Today we'll add an edit view for new licks and we'll try to merge it with the "single lick" page.
We'll use Django's `CreateView`. Truth be told, I wonder why there is a separate `UpdateView`,
but I guess if we need it, we'll cross that bridge when we get there.

Implementation
--------------

First, the view. This is just a simple subclass of `CreateView`, with model `Lick`.

Next up, the template. The Django docs for the view provide a good example.
Essentially, the form elements are autogenerated and rendered.
Sort of mixes presentation and logic, but it's convenient all the same.

Finally, the URL mapping. Pretty much the same as the URL used to view a list.
One problem, though: we need to define a success url. Will check that out tomorrow.
Got to get up early tomorrow.

WIP result, further plans
-------------------------

These quick changes give us a rudimentary form to create licks.
For one thing, we get to select a user with whom to associate the lick.
For another, it would be nice if we could also *play* the lick directly
from this page. That will require some extra Javascript.
Also, we want some more appropriate widgets, and we really should be able
to inspect registered licks in more detail later on.

So yeah, plenty of stuff to work on on day 6. And beyond!
