content/django_auction.rst, before:

Writing an AJAX-powered auction in Django
#########################################

:date: 2013-07-11
:tags: Django
:category: Python
:slug: auction-in-django
:author: Vincent Nys
:status: draft
:summary: A complete rundown of my recent Github project.

Intro
-----

I'd like to improve my knowledge of Django.
I spent a few weeks with Pyramid last year and, although it is a powerful
framework, it just doesn't have the same backing. If Pyramid was as popular
as Django, I'd probably stick with it, but more backing means better
learnability and more traction for projects. So Django it is.

To start learning, I wrote an auction web application.
Not exactly an ebay clone, but something you'd use to sell off high volumes
of low-value items to acquaintances.
That means you don't need the strict transaction flow ebay gives you, but you
do want maximal convenience.
Therefore, the application uses existing social network logins to identify
users and allows one-click bids by using AJAX.

This post details how it can be done.
It does not assume that you have worked with Django before, but it only
explains the concepts that are used for the web app.
Some great resources on Django itself are
`The Django Book <http://www.djangobook.com/en/2.0/index.html>`_,
`Obey the Testing Goat! <http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/>`_,
`2 Scoops of Django <https://django.2scoops.org/>`_ and, of course,
`The Django Project <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_.
The first two links are complete online ebooks which can be understood
even by Python beginners.

Quite a bit of emphasis will be placed on how the application can be tested,
because I feel you can't learn proper testing practices for a framework soon
enough.

Django and Continuous Integration
---------------------------------

I think continuous integration is brilliant.
Up until now, I've applied a "lite" version of CI by using tdaemon and nose
to run all my tests when a file changes.
That's huge improvement over running tests manually, but there is dedicated
software for the job and it's used in industry, so I'd like to figure out
how to apply that to Django.

A well-known CI tool is `Jenkins <http://jenkins-ci.org/>`_.
I'll be using that. Specifically, I'll be using django-jenkins and
I'll be basing my experiments here on
`this tutorial <https://sites.google.com/site/kmmbvnr/home/django-jenkins-tutorial>`_.

Before I explain how I'd like things to be tested, a bit of explanation may be
in order: Django distinguishes between "projects" and "apps", the former being
composed of the latter. Projects are just web applications in the general
sense. Apps are smaller components, like a forum, a store, etc.
The reason for the distinction is reusability.
Well-designed apps are reusable.
You could use the same forum app on multiple web sites, for instance.
This implies that apps are written in a loosely coupled manner.
They can have their own templates (which render to HTML) but these should
be minimal.

With that in mind, I'd like Jenkins to run tests for both the project we'll
be building and for the app we'll be writing and including in the project.
I'd also like to make a distinction between functional tests and unit tests,
like in `Obey the Testing Goat! <http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/>`_.
Functional tests will usually be more expensive, because they test larger
chunks of functionality.
It'd be cool if I could run unit tests on each code change and functional
tests on each commit, but I can live with another setup.

Let's dig in.
On my laptop, I managed to get Jenkins up and running... somehow.
Now, I can't get it to start anymore.
On my desktop, installing it was enough to make it available at
localhost:8080 after reboot.
Restarting the service without rebooting didn't help.
Long story short, you may need to do some tinkering and even then your
mileage may vary.
I may look into this further in posts focusing on Java, but now I'd just
like to proceed with the Django content.

Anyway, here's what the initial screen looks like for me:

.. todo::
   screenshot 1

Installing the "Violations" and "Cobertura" plugins is as easy as checking
under the "Available" tab of the plugin management page.

I create a new free form job and I call it "django-jenkins-yardsale".
Up until the "specify the location of test reports" part, I just follow
the tutorial verbatim.
I'm a bit surprised there's no box asking me for the directory from which
the command will be run.
I'll probably have to retrace my steps and set that somewhere a bit later on.

Commit message:

Info on how to upgrade Jenkins so that plugins can be activated.

content/django_auction.rst, after:

Writing an AJAX-powered auction in Django
#########################################

:date: 2013-07-11
:tags: Django
:category: Python
:slug: auction-in-django
:author: Vincent Nys
:status: draft
:summary: A complete rundown of my recent Github project.

Intro
-----

I'd like to improve my knowledge of Django.
I spent a few weeks with Pyramid last year and, although it is a powerful
framework, it just doesn't have the same backing. If Pyramid was as popular
as Django, I'd probably stick with it, but more backing means better
learnability and more traction for projects. So Django it is.

To start learning, I wrote an auction web application.
Not exactly an ebay clone, but something you'd use to sell off high volumes
of low-value items to acquaintances.
That means you don't need the strict transaction flow ebay gives you, but you
do want maximal convenience.
Therefore, the application uses existing social network logins to identify
users and allows one-click bids by using AJAX.

This post details how it can be done.
It does not assume that you have worked with Django before, but it only
explains the concepts that are used for the web app.
Some great resources on Django itself are
`The Django Book <http://www.djangobook.com/en/2.0/index.html>`_,
`Obey the Testing Goat! <http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/>`_,
`2 Scoops of Django <https://django.2scoops.org/>`_ and, of course,
`The Django Project <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_.
The first two links are complete online ebooks which can be understood
even by Python beginners.

Quite a bit of emphasis will be placed on how the application can be tested,
because I feel you can't learn proper testing practices for a framework soon
enough.

Django and Continuous Integration
---------------------------------

I think continuous integration is brilliant.
Up until now, I've applied a "lite" version of CI by using tdaemon and nose
to run all my tests when a file changes.
That's huge improvement over running tests manually, but there is dedicated
software for the job and it's used in industry, so I'd like to figure out
how to apply that to Django.

A well-known CI tool is `Jenkins <http://jenkins-ci.org/>`_.
I'll be using that. Specifically, I'll be using django-jenkins and
I'll be basing my experiments here on
`this tutorial <https://sites.google.com/site/kmmbvnr/home/django-jenkins-tutorial>`_.

Before I explain how I'd like things to be tested, a bit of explanation may be
in order: Django distinguishes between "projects" and "apps", the former being
composed of the latter. Projects are just web applications in the general
sense. Apps are smaller components, like a forum, a store, etc.
The reason for the distinction is reusability.
Well-designed apps are reusable.
You could use the same forum app on multiple web sites, for instance.
This implies that apps are written in a loosely coupled manner.
They can have their own templates (which render to HTML) but these should
be minimal.

With that in mind, I'd like Jenkins to run tests for both the project we'll
be building and for the app we'll be writing and including in the project.
I'd also like to make a distinction between functional tests and unit tests,
like in `Obey the Testing Goat! <http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/>`_.
Functional tests will usually be more expensive, because they test larger
chunks of functionality.
It'd be cool if I could run unit tests on each code change and functional
tests on each commit, but I can live with another setup.

Let's dig in.
On my laptop, I managed to get Jenkins up and running... somehow.
Now, I can't get it to start anymore.
On my desktop, installing it was enough to make it available at
localhost:8080 after reboot.
Restarting the service without rebooting didn't help.
Long story short, you may need to do some tinkering and even then your
mileage may vary.
I may look into this further in posts focusing on Java, but now I'd just
like to proceed with the Django content.

Anyway, here's what the initial screen looks like for me:

.. todo::
   screenshot 1

Installing the "Violations" and "Cobertura" plugins may not be as easy
as just checking the plugins under the "Available" tab. In my case,
they did not show up. A quick google search explains that plugins for
more recent versions of Jenkins may not show up.
Therefore, I grab the latest .war for Jenkins and replace that in
/usr/share/jenkins.
You can get the .war simply by trying to update Jenkins from the
management page.
Or, if you're running it in the generic way, with the "java" command,
that'll do the whole update for you.
Sure enough, after a reboot, everything looks good again, and plugins
are visible.

I create a new free form job and I call it "django-jenkins-yardsale".
Up until the "specify the location of test reports" part, I just follow
the tutorial verbatim.
I'm a bit surprised there's no box asking me for the directory from which
the command will be run.
I'll probably have to retrace my steps and set that somewhere a bit later on.

I follow the setup in the tutorial, but to run the tests, I specify these
build steps:

   cd /home/vincent/Projects/YardSaleEnv
   source bin/activate
   pip install -r requirements.pip
   python manage.py jenkins

Then, the tutorial mentions setting the location of test reports, but it also
says that "test reports from TEST-*.xml now stored in one file - junit.xml" in
recent versions of Jenkins. I'm not sure what to make of that.
I'm not using Lettuce, so if the only other reports already have a location,
I take it that I don't have to specify any location at all.
