content/shame_on_the_night_intro.rst, before:

Shame on the Night, intro
=========================

:date: 2013-12-14
:tags: Dio, guitar, ear training
:category: Music
:slug: shame-on-the-night-intro
:author: Vincent Nys
:summary: Quick analysis of a Dio riff
:status: draft

What's up?
----------

I'm starting to believe copying licks and riffs is not just for those who
already know how to play well; emulating other artists is probably one of
the best things you can do to learn how to play better, regardless of your
level of skill. I'm currently cooking something up to streamline the
process for more difficult stuff, but in the meantime, I'll just analyze 
some simple licks to see how that goes. Today's lick is the intro to Dio's
`Shame on the Night <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zb-El0dFDzI>`.
That is, the first 22 seconds of that YouTube video.

I think the most educational way to go about this is to listen first, attempt
an analysis without using the instrument and then playing back the result to
see if the analysis was accurate. I only thought it would be a good idea to
make a blog post after I did this, so today I'll be cheating a bit and
pretending I got it right.

Stage 1: going up
-----------------

The first four notes form an upward sequence, with the first three being palm
mutes. The third note is recognizable as a fourth (first interval
in "Amazing Grace") from the root. The second note is lower, and it's a bit
sinister, so it's likely to be an ascending third. The fourth note I
guessed was a fifth, because those are common, but I should have listened
more carefully because it turns out it's a minor sixth. So the lesson there
is to listen first and infer later.

Stage 2: back down
------------------

The fifth note is the same as the third note, so it's a fourth.
And the sixth note is the same as the second note, so that's our minor
third again. Finally, the seventh note finishes the first variation on
the intro lick, and it's the same as the fifth note.

Stage 3: a variation
--------------------

The part that's different from the previous variation here is in the last
two notes.

Commit message:

First (somewhat incomplete) analysis of a riff.

content/shame_on_the_night_intro.rst, after:

Shame on the Night, intro
=========================

:date: 2013-12-14
:tags: Dio, guitar, ear training
:category: Music
:slug: shame-on-the-night-intro
:author: Vincent Nys
:summary: Quick analysis of a Dio riff

What's up?
----------

I'm starting to believe copying licks and riffs is not just for those who
already know how to play well; emulating other artists is probably one of
the best things you can do to learn how to play better, regardless of your
level of skill. I'm currently cooking something up to streamline the
process for more difficult stuff, but in the meantime, I'll just analyze 
some simple licks to see how that goes. Today's lick is the intro to Dio's
`Shame on the Night <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zb-El0dFDzI>`_.
That is, the first 22 seconds of that YouTube video.

I think the most educational way to go about this is to listen first, attempt
an analysis without using the instrument and then playing back the result to
see if the analysis was accurate. I only thought it would be a good idea to
make a blog post after I did this, so today I'll be cheating a bit and
pretending I got it right.

Stage 1: going up
-----------------

The first four notes form an upward sequence, with the first three being palm
mutes. The third note is recognizable as a fourth (first interval
in "Amazing Grace") from the root. The second note is lower, and it's a bit
sinister, so it's likely to be an ascending third. The fourth note I
guessed was a fifth, because those are common, but I should have listened
more carefully because it turns out it's a minor sixth. So the lesson there
is to listen first and infer later.

Stage 2: back down
------------------

The fifth note is the same as the third note, so it's a fourth.
And the sixth note is the same as the second note, so that's our minor
third again. Finally, the seventh note finishes the first variation on
the intro lick, and it's the same as the fifth note.

Stage 3: a variation
--------------------

The part that's different from the previous variation here is in the last
two notes.

Conclusion
----------
This is what I had time to write out yesterday.
I want to do a new riff each day and I did my analysis, so here's the short
version: variation moves from major second to root; next variation moves
from octave to minor seventh; final variation is like the second, but it
uses power chords instead of individual notes.
